For this second exercise of the chapter
we're going to add some functionality to
the
student class, that we didn't include when
we
had implemented the class back in the
lessons.
So I pulled up the file that had the
student class definition.
The first thing let's do is let's save it
as a new file.
[BLANK_AUDIO]
Go to computer.
[BLANK_AUDIO].
We're in Python 30.
There we go.
And we're gonna call it student1.py.
Change this to All Files like so.
[BLANK_AUDIO].
The first bit of functionality we want to
add is a two string method.
So we write, def, two underscores, S-T-R,
two more underscores, and self, as the
parameter.
And then what wanna do is we're going to
put
some field headings, for lack of a better
term, here.
So we're going to say return, name, plus
self name.
Plus a new line and then we wanna continue
this string on the next line.
So we'll put a backslash right here.
Let's scoot over to here, then we'll have
the student's ID displayed next, plus a
new line.
And we wanna go down to the next line.
Now we wanna add the students grades.
So here we're gonna call the show grades
method inside two string, which works just
fine,
and that will display the students grades,
out
beside the heading Grades, as we have
right here.
So, let's test that.
We'll stick with what we have here, and
let's change
this line to print stu1, so we'll save the
file, type
student1.py and so there's the name Jones,
there's the ID
123, and there are the grades, 88, 84, and
91.
So let's go back to the file and now let's
add
one more method and let's compute the
average of the students grades.
So here we're going to create a total
variable, set it to 0.
Then we're going to loop through the
grades,
taking each grade and adding it to the
total.
And then to return the average, we're
going to return the total, divided by the
length of grades which will be the number
of grades in the list.
[BLANK_AUDIO].
So let's do a print average, and then
string, stu1, average, just like so,
[BLANK_AUDIO]
Save the file.
Run the program again.
We have some illegal syntax.
I'm sure I know what the problem is, I
left off the closing parenthesis.
So let's save.
Okay, we're gonna stick with this problem,
and I see what I did wrong.
Just trying to work through here very
quickly.
I forgot to reference the class using
self.
And that's a common mistake that you're
going to make.
I shouldn't have made it, since I did
reference
it correctly there, but we get patterns in
our head.
And I'm so used to working with data
structures outside
of the class, that I'll sometimes forget
to put the self.
before that.
So let's try it again.
Now let's clear the screen.
And type student1.py, and that time it
worked just fine.
So again to summarize what we did for this
exercise, is we added 2 methods.
First we added a 2 string method, that
displays the name, the ID, and
the grades with helpful headings to let
the user know what they're looking at.
Certainly didnt have to use those, but it
comes in handy
to display the information in a way that
you can understand.
And then we created an average method that
takes all
the grades in the student object, and
returns the total.
And with that we're finished with this
introductory chapter on Object Oriented
Programming and
we're ready to move to the next chapter
where we're going to discuss inheritance.